Optimistic group creation (#187)
xmtp/docs-xmtp-org: docs/pages/inboxes/create-conversations.md

## Check if an identity is reachable

> The first step to creating a conversation is to verify that participants' identities are reachable on XMTP. The `canMessage` method checks each identity's compatibility, returning a response indicating whether each identity can receive messages.

Author: ```suggestion
The first step to creating a conversation is to verify that participants' identities are reachable on XMTP. The `canMessage` method checks each identity’s compatibility, returning a response indicating whether each identity can receive messages.
```

> The first step to creating a conversation is to verify that participants' identities are reachable on XMTP. The `canMessage` method checks each identity’s compatibility, returning a response indicating whether each identity can receive messages.

Author: ```suggestion
The first step to creating a conversation is to verify that participants’ identities are reachable on XMTP. The `canMessage` method checks each identity's compatibility, returning a response indicating whether each identity can receive messages.
```

:::

## Create a new group chat

Once you have the verified identities, create a new group chat.

:::tip

> If you need offline support, consider using [optimistic group chat creation](#optimistically-create-a-group-chat) instead. This approach enables instant group creation and message preparation, even when offline or before adding members.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to provide faster and offline group creation, consider using [optimistic group chat creation](#optimistically-create-a-group-chat) instead. This approach enables instant group creation and message preparation before adding members and even when offline.
```

> If you need better performance and offline support, consider using [optimistic group chat creation](#optimistically-create-a-group-chat) instead. This approach enables instant group creation and message preparation, even when offline or before adding members.

Author: ```suggestion
If you need offline support, consider using [optimistic group chat creation](#optimistically-create-a-group-chat) instead. This approach enables instant group creation and message preparation, even when offline or before adding members.
```

:::

## Optimistically create a group chat

Use this method to optimistically create a group chat, which enables a user to create a group chat now and add members later.

> The group chat is created with just a name and is stored only in the app's local storage. The group chat is visible only to the creator in the app installation they used to create it.

Reviewer: > The group chat is created with just a name

the group can also be created with any number of standard options, or no options.

When you want to add members, you use [`addMembers()`](/inboxes/group-permissions#add-members-by-inbox-id) with a list of inbox IDs.

> After adding members, you need to call [`sync()`](/inboxes/sync-and-syncall#sync-a-specific-conversation) to synchronize the group chat with the network.

Reviewer: you shouldn't need to call sync here. the group syncs automatically when adding or removing members.

:::

## Optimistically create a new group chat

> Optimistic group creation enables instant group chat creation and message preparation, even when offline or before adding members. This approach prioritizes user experience by allowing immediate interaction with the group chat, while handling the network synchronization in the background when members are added.

Author: ```suggestion
Optimistic group creation enables instant group chat creation and message preparation before adding members and even when offline. This approach prioritizes user experience by allowing immediate interaction with the group chat, while handling the network synchronization in the background when members are added.
```

Use this method to optimistically create a group chat, which enables a user to create a group chat now and add members later.

The group chat can be created with any number of [standard options](/inboxes/group-metadata#updatable-group-chat-metadata), or no options. The group chat is stored only in the local storage of the app installation used to create it. In other words, the group chat is visible only to the creator and in the app installation they used to create it.

You can prepare messages for the optimistic group chat immediately using `prepareMessage()`. As with the group chat itself, these messages are stored locally only.

When you want to add members, you use [`addMembers()`](/inboxes/group-permissions#add-members-by-inbox-id) with a list of inbox IDs.

Adding a member will automatically sync the group chat to the network. Once synced, the group chat becomes visible to the added members and across other app installations.

> After adding members, you must explicitly call `publishMessages()` to send any prepared messages to the network.

Author: Correct?

> To learn more about optimistically sending messages using `prepareMessage()` and `publishMessages()`, see [Optimistically send messages](/inboxes/send-messages#optimistically-send-messages).

Author: Does it make more sense to keep optimistic groups and messages alongside the non-optimistic groups and messages -- or to put them together in an optimistic doc -- and then link to the info from the non-optimistic groups and messages sections?

The group chat can be created with any number of [standard options](/inboxes/group-metadata#updatable-group-chat-metadata), or no options. The group chat is stored only in the local storage of the app installation used to create it. In other words, the group chat is visible only to the creator and in the app installation they used to create it.

You can prepare messages for the optimistic group chat immediately using `prepareMessage()`. As with the group chat itself, these messages are stored locally only.

When you want to add members, you use [`addMembers()`](/inboxes/group-permissions#add-members-by-inbox-id) with a list of inbox IDs.

Adding a member will automatically sync the group chat to the network. Once synced, the group chat becomes visible to the added members and across other app installations.

After adding members, you must explicitly call `publishMessages()` to send any prepared messages to the network.

To learn more about optimistically sending messages using `prepareMessage()` and `publishMessages()`, see [Optimistically send messages](/inboxes/send-messages#optimistically-send-messages).

:::code-group

```js [Browser]

```

```js [Node]

> ```

Reviewer 2: @rygine mind adding the code snippets here.

Reviewer: done
